README.md, before:

# Portable Ansible Lab

The purpose of this project is to provide a POC of a portable ansible lab via Vagrant and Virtualbox.

This lab can be utilized regardless if you're on Windows, Linux or Mac (x86_64 Macs only).

Please make sure the following is installed on your local machine:

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)

- [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads)

- [Virtualbox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads)

This lab will consist of three nodes:

- One Ansible Controlplane node
- Three Worker Nodes

# HOW-TO-WINDOWS

1. Make sure the preqs are installed

2. open a powershell window and type

    `git clone https://github.com/Retrockit/ansible_lab`

     `cd ansible_lab`

3. type: `rm id_rsa*` to delete the reference keys. You're going to generate your own keys.

        a. In the same powershell window type: ssh-keygen

        b. When prompted to name keys type: id_rsa

        c. your id_rsa and id_rsa.pub keys will be saved to the current directory

3. Wait for the VMs to be created. Vagrant will prompt for your windows credentials to create the SMB share. Please provide when asked.

4. Wait about 3-5 minutes for the VMs to be create

4. Once done type:

    `vagrant ssh controlnode`

5. Once you've remoted into the controlnode type:

    `cd ansible`

    This will take you into the ansible folder with all that you need to try out ansible: 
    
    - ansible.cfg pointing to hosts.ini inventory file 
    
    - hosts.ini with all the vagrant machines

    - blank playbook.yml

6. You're all set. When done type: 

    `exit`

7. To destroy lab type:

    `vagrant destroy -f`


# HOW-TO-LINUX/macOS(Intel)

1. Make sure the preqs are installed

2. Open a terminal window and type:


    `git clone https://github.com/Retrockit/ansible_lab`

3. Open your favorite text editor, within the ansible_lab folder you're going to open the `Vagrantfile`

5. Uncomment lines 44-45 and comment-out line 48

6. Save and exit out the file

6. Open a Terminal window and type:

    `cd ansible_lab`

7. type: `rm id_rsa*` to delete the reference keys. You're going to generate your own keys.

        a. In terminal type: ssh-keygen

        b. name the keys: id_rsa

        c. Press Enter twice to save the public and private keys to the current directory

3. Wait for the VMs to be created (give or take 3-5 minutes)

4. Once done type:

    `vagrant ssh controlnode`

5. Once you've remoted into the controlnode type:

    `cd ansible`

    This will take you into the ansible folder with all that you need to try out ansible: 
    
    - ansible.cfg pointing to hosts.ini inventory file 
    
    - hosts.ini with all the vagrant machines

    - blank playbook.yml

6. You're all set. When done type: 

    `exit`

7. To destroy lab type:

    `vagrant destroy -f`

Commit message:

Reorganized project
Created Windows and Linux versions of the project. Dropped macOS support

README.md, after:

# Portable Ansible Lab

The purpose of this project is to provide a POC of a portable ansible lab via Vagrant and Virtualbox.

This lab can be utilized regardless if you're on Windows or Linux.

Please make sure the following is installed on your local machine:

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)

- [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads)

- [Virtualbox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads)

This lab will consist of three nodes:

- One Ansible Controlplane node
- Three Worker Nodes

# HOW-TO-WINDOWS

1. Make sure the prequisites are installed

2. open a powershell window and type

    `git clone https://github.com/Retrockit/ansible_lab`

     `cd ansible_lab\Windows`

3. type: `rm id_rsa*` to delete the reference keys. You're going to generate your own keys.

        a. In the same powershell window type: ssh-keygen

        b. When prompted to name keys type: id_rsa

        c. your id_rsa and id_rsa.pub keys will be saved to the current directory

3. type: `vagrant up`

4. Wait about 3-5 minutes for the VMs to be create
    (NOTE: You will prompted once to enter credentials to mount the SMB share. Make sure to enter your windows username and password correctly.)

4. Once done type:

    `vagrant ssh controlnode`



5. Once you've remoted into the controlnode type:

    `cd ansible`

    This will take you into the ansible folder with all that you need to try out ansible: 
    
    - ansible.cfg pointing to hosts.ini inventory file 
    
    - hosts.ini with all the vagrant machines

    - blank playbook.yml

6. You're all set. When done type: 

    `exit`

7. To destroy lab type:

    `vagrant destroy -f`



# HOW-TO-LINUX

1. Make sure the prequisites are installed

2. Open a terminal window and type:


    `git clone https://github.com/Retrockit/ansible_lab`


6. Open a Terminal window and type:

    `cd ansible_lab/Linux`

7. type: `rm id_rsa*` to delete the reference keys. You're going to generate your own keys.

        a. In terminal type: ssh-keygen

        b. name the keys: id_rsa

        c. Press Enter twice to save the public and private keys to the current directory

5. type: `vagrant up`

3. Wait for the VMs to be created (give or take 3-5 minutes)

4. Once done type:

    `vagrant ssh controlnode`

5. Once you've remoted into the controlnode type:

    `cd ansible`

    This will take you into the ansible folder with all that you need to try out ansible: 
    
    - ansible.cfg pointing to hosts.ini inventory file 
    
    - hosts.ini with all the vagrant machines

    - blank playbook.yml

6. You're all set. When done type: 

    `exit`

7. To destroy lab type:

    `vagrant destroy -f`
